Aws_Lab_001

1. Single EC2 Instance

Goal
The goal of this lab is to launch a single EC2 instance in a public subnet accessible over the Internet via SSH. Here is a mind map of EC2.

Overview
In order to achieve the goal of this lab, you will have to go through the following steps:

Choose the operating system by selecting the Amazon Machine Image (AMI).
Define the virtual hardware configuration by choosing an Instance Type.
Review the network settings.
Review the storage settings.
Create tags (optional).
Configure the Security Group rules (firewall).
Launch the instance (choosing or creating an EC2 key pair).
Let's begin!!! Go to AWS Console and login with your credentials. Click on Services at the top left, then choose EC2 in the Compute section.

Step 1 - Choose the AMI
In the EC2 service menu, click on Launch instance and select Launch Instance.

Step 2 - Define the Instance Type
The instance type defines the CPU and memory capacity. It also specifies the storage architecture that the 
instance will suppport, along with network perfomance available. You can use the suggested free-tier eligible 
instance type, and then go on to Next : Configuration Details.

Step 3 - Network Settings
Make sure you select the public default subnet and that the Auto-assign Public IP setting is enabled for that subnet. 
You may leave all the other settings with their default values.

Step 4 - Storage Settings
You can accept the default settings which creates an EBS root volume.

Step 5 - Tags
Tags is a way to add textual metadata to AWS Resources to help you manage your cloud environment. For now, you can skip this step.

Step 6 - Security Group
The Security Group is a firewall for the instance. Create a new security group named ssh-access with a rule 
that allows SSH from anywhere (or choose My IP if you prefer).

Step 7 - Launch Instance
You can review all the settings until this step in the next screen

If everything is Ok, go on to Launch. In the new windows, for the key-pair you can create a new key pair 
(name it lab-001). Download the key pair to your computer (the file will be named lab-001.pem).

You will be forwarded to a new screen with the launch status.

Go on to View Instances to return to the EC2 Console. There you will a list of existing instances and the new instance you just created.

Test & Validation
Once your instance is up and running, select it on the EC2 console and click on Connect

From the new window, copy the example ssh command-line. It will have the following format:

$ ssh -i "lab-001.pem" ec2-user@ec2-100-25-181-143.compute-1.amazonaws.com

The ec2-user is the default user name in Amazon Linux AMIs. The hostname ec2-100-25-181-143.
compute-1.amazonaws.com is the DNS name for your instance that AWS automatically defines. Open a terminal 
window and move to the folder where you saved the downloaded key file lab-001.pem. Change the permissions of the key file:

$ chmod 400 lab-001.pem

Paste and run the ssh command. You should be able to log into your instance. If you are a Windows user, 
you can also use Putty to connect. Follow this link for instructions.



